# Actuarial Climate Index Package

   Currently, the package is organized into different classes, with each class dedicated to a specific component required for the index calculation. Further optimization will be done later. The source files implementing these classes are located in the aci/ directory. The aci.py file is used to calculate the Actuarial Climate Index. Refer to the notebooks for detailed usage instructions.

Additionally, the project requires certain dependencies to compile correctly. It is recommended to create a virtual environment using conda for testing purposes. The environments.yml file facilitates this setup. 

```bash
conda env create -f environment.yml
```
Once the environment is created and activated, you can open the notebook files to test the code.

We have also included a Makefile that allows you to remove files generated by the code by running 

```bash
make clean
```
It is possible to run the current tests implemented by processing : 

```bash
make test
```

## References

<a id="1">[1]</a>
ACI: Actuaries Climate Index Development and Design. American Academy of Actuaries, Canadian Institute of Actuaries, Casualty Actuarial Society, Society of Actuaries. (for Version 1.1, April 2019 see https://actuariesclimateindex.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/ACI.DevDes.2.20.pdf)

<a id="2">[2]</a> 
Hersbach, H., Bell, B., Berrisford, P., Biavati, G., Horányi, A., Muñoz Sabater, J., Nicolas, J., Peubey, C., Radu, R., Rozum, I., Schepers, D., Simmons, A., Soci, C., Dee, D., Thépaut, J-N. (2023): ERA5 hourly data on single levels from 1940 to present. Copernicus Climate Change Service (C3S) Climate Data Store (CDS), DOI: 10.24381/cds.adbb2d47

<a id="3">[3]</a>
Permanent Service for Mean Sea Level (PSMSL): Tide Gauge Data (2023). http://www.psmsl.org/data/obtaining/
